Our visualizations keep improving,
now it's time to take a look at the formatting options that we have.
So before we start that video, let me make one quick note,
I will not guide you through all of the formatting options you have for each of the different visualizations
available in Power BI desktop,
I just want to give you a basic overview so that you are able to find the formatting section and that
you get a basic understanding of what you can do right there
and then of course it's up to you to decide how you want to format your visualizations. Now after saying
that, let's first select the line chart for instance.
Now we know that fields area right here,
so in the visualizations column
and if you now click onto that symbol right here, this is the formatting area, right here.
Now one important thing maybe, if we now select the right visualization right there, like this, then the formatting
options change.
So this is not equal for all of the visualizations types but as we will now take a basic look at all those
options,
you will find yourself pretty comfortable with the other visualizations,
now let's change back to the line chart right here.
In that line chart, we can now see that the first option we have is the legend
and if you change that from on to off by clicking right here, then you can see that the legend up here
disappeared. If you turned it on again,
it's back.
Now let's say you want to have that legend but that you're not happy with the way it looks and the way
it is displayed, to change that,
you simply can click onto that arrow right here and now the first thing we can do is we can change
the position.
So now it is on top,
we can change it to bottom for instance, to the right and many other positions just as we prefer.
So let's change it back to top,
I think this looks quite good,
this. The next option is to decide if you want to have a title,
so we got one,
if you turn it off, region name is gone and back again.
You can also define a title of that legend,
So we will keep it with region name.
We can change the color right here in that menu,
we can close it and we can change the font size of the legend from 8 to, I think to keep it at 8,
this looks better.
As soon as you are done right here, you can close that by simply clicking onto that arrow.
Now the next two options are the axis options and those are pretty comparable,
so I would just take a quick look at the x-axis right now.
So we now turn the x-axis on,
if we turn it off, we don't see the years anymore.
This is not good,
so we should keep the years and turn it back on again, like this.
If we open the menu now, you can see that you have various options on how to work with the x-axis,
let me just show you one thing quickly.
If you go to that start area and click right here and now write 2000 for instance, like this, then the
visualization changed because it is now displayed starting in 2000.
Now we don't want that,
so we can delete that
and now we can see that the visualization change back to the starting point,
1950.
So here you can find the axis options,
let's also close that. Let's now see what else could we take a look at, well the data colors,
this is pretty easy actually,
you can simply open it and now change the color types of the different lines and of the legend,
so for instance if we change Africa from that color to yellow, you can see that Africa changed the color
right here
and in the line chart right there. We don't want that,
so let's change it back to the initial color, like this,
so we can close that now. The data labels,
yes I think we should take a quick look at that,
so if we turn it on, then we have data labels
and if you open the menu, like this, you can again change the color and how it is displayed
and maybe let's take a quick look at the density.
So this is now at 50%, if I decrease it we have less labels, if I increase it we have more labels.
Well we should keep it at 50%,
so let's type 50 right here
or actually we can turn it off,
so let's do this right there and
close that menu. Another thing that might be interesting to you are the shapes,
so if open that, you can see that you can define, well the size of the line or the width of the line actually.
So if I increase that, you can see it gets bigger, if I decrease that, it gets smaller, again
we should keep it the way it is right now,
so let's close that. And the next option I want to take a look at, as I said, I will not go through all
of the options that we have right here is maybe the title, right here.
If we turn the title off, then it's gone,
if we turn it on, then it's here of course
and if you open that menu, then you can define certain things about the title. The title name because
this is a text that is set automatically by Power BI
and we won't change it for the moment and you have the font color right here,
so we could change that to white for instance but now we cannot see a lot in our visualization,
so we should also add some background color, maybe black and change the alignment,
so now it is aligned to the left,
we could change it to the center, like this and we can also change the size of the title,
maybe like this.
Now this looks good,
so let's close that menu and what else can I show you?
Well maybe the background, at the moment we don't have any background.
If we turn that on, you don't see a difference,
let's see why this is not visible.
So we click right here, scroll down a little bit,
well you can see that we have the color set to white and this is why we cannot see any background right
now.
If we changed that to this dark gray for instance, then we have a background color and here we can play
around with the transparency.
To be honest, I don't want to have a background color in our report so we can turn it off right here
and close that.
Now the last thing I want to show you is that border option down here. If we turn that on, you can see
if we unselect that visualization quickly that we now have that little border around our visualization
and if we click that again, go to the formatting menu, scroll down, open that menu, then we can define the color
of that border,
so we will keep it black because I think this looks good.
So let's now close that also.
So now we formatted our left visualization and we can click onto the report right here.
Now that we did that,
what if you want to have the same formatting style to that right visualization?
You could of course
click here,
go to the format menu and also adjust the title and the border
in our case. One option but not a really comfortable option I would say,
so we won't do that but if we select our left visualization, so the formatted visualization and go to
the home ribbon and now select the format painter right here, click that like this and now move that
format painter to the other visualization
and simply click right there,
then you can see that the format was applied also to the second visualization
and if you click right here, you can see that this also looks nice right now.
The only thing that doesn't look nice right now is that sorting in the right visualization
because I would prefer that we can see the different columns sorted by the size of the population and
not alphabetically by the name of the region.
Now to change that, you will select a visualization, something I just did and now in the right part, right
here,
if you click there, you have more options and the sort by population option can be found right there.
If you click that, then you can see that our data are now sorted differently,
so from large to small,
that's nice,
so we can click right here. Now that we have an overview of the formatting options in Power BI desktop,
I think it's time to learn some new visualizations
and we talked about the interactions before and about interactivity in general.
Maybe there is one visualization type that helps us to make our reports even more interactive,
let's learn what that is in the next video.